---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "ode_instance Resource - ode"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages the provisioning of a z/OS instance onto a Linux target environment.
---

# ode_instance (Resource)

Manages the provisioning of a z/OS instance onto a Linux target environment.

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_version = ">=1.11.0"
  required_providers {
    ode = {
      source  = "IBM/ode"
      version = "1.0.0"
    }
  }
}

provider "ode" {
  ode_host     = "https://your-ode-hostname:port"
  ode_username = "your-ode-user"
  ode_password = "your-ode-password"
  ode_tls = {
    ca_file     = file("/path/to/ca_file")
    server_name = "your-ode-server-name-matching-ca-certificate"
  }
}

resource "ode_instance" "zos_25" {
  depends_on          = [ode_ipl_target.install_target]
  ssh_target_user     = "your_ssh_target_admin_user"
  ssh_target_password = "your_ssh_target_admin_password"

  general = {
    label                 = "your_instance_label"
    description           = "your_instance_description"
    target_uuid           = ode_ipl_target.install_target.id
    image_uuid            = data.ode_image.zos_image.uuid
    ssh_public_key        = "your_ssh_public_key"
    deployment_directory  = "/opt"
    sysres_component_uuid = data.ode_image.zos_image.sysres_component_uuid
  }

  emulator = {
    cp  = 4
    ram = 5368709120
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `general` (Attributes) General properties of provision (label, target, image, SSH key, etc.) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--general))

### Optional

> **NOTE**: [Write-only arguments](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral#write-only-arguments) are supported in Terraform 1.11 and later.

- `emulator` (Attributes) Emulator or hardware resource allocations (CPU, RAM, etc.) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--emulator))
- `ipl` (Attributes) All IPL values will be used from the image specified (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--ipl))
- `ssh_target_key_file` (String, Sensitive, [Write-only](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral#write-only-arguments)) Linux private key file content (Must specify if using key based SSH). Alternatively, this value can be sourced from the `SSH_KEY_FILE_PATH` environment variable.
- `ssh_target_passphrase` (String, Sensitive, [Write-only](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral#write-only-arguments)) Passphrase for the SSH key file, if encrypted. Alternatively, this value can be sourced from the `SSH_TARGET_PASSPHRASE` environment variable.
- `ssh_target_password` (String, Sensitive, [Write-only](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral#write-only-arguments)) Linux target password for SSH access (Must specify if not using SSH key). Alternatively, this value can be sourced from the `SSH_TARGET_PASSWORD` environment variable.
- `ssh_target_user` (String, Sensitive, [Write-only](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral#write-only-arguments)) Linux target username for SSH access. Alternatively, this value can be sourced from the `SSH_TARGET_USER` environment variable.
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))
- `zos_creds` (Attributes) Credentials for z/OS (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--zos_creds))

### Read-Only

- `hostname` (String) The IP address assigned to the z/OS instance
- `provision_uuid` (String) The unique provision ID returned by On-Demand Environments after provisioning starts
- `status` (String) Current provision status (e.g., 'in_progress', 'completed', 'failed')

<a id="nestedatt--general"></a>
### Nested Schema for `general`

Required:

- `image_uuid` (String) The UUID of image (stock image only)
- `label` (String) Label or name for provisioned instance
- `target_uuid` (String) UUID of the Linux target environment

Optional:

- `deployment_directory` (String) Directory path on the target system for deployment
- `description` (String) Optional description for the provisioned instance
- `ssh_public_key` (String) Public SSH key to inject if provisioning a stock image
- `sysres_component_uuid` (String) UUID of the system component that will be used to provision an instance


<a id="nestedatt--emulator"></a>
### Nested Schema for `emulator`

Required:

- `cp` (Number) Number of CP (general-purpose) engines
- `ram` (Number) Amount of RAM in bytes (e.g., 8589934592 for 8 GiB)

Optional:

- `ziip` (Number) Number of zIIP engines to allocate, 0 if none


<a id="nestedatt--ipl"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ipl`

Required:

- `device_address` (String) The device address in the devmap of the volume that contains the initial load program of z/OS
- `iodf_address` (String) The device address where IPL process will look for the IODF data set and SYSn.IPLPARM
- `load_suffix` (String) The suffix for the LOADxx member in SYSn.IPLPARM or SYS1.PARMLIB


<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.


<a id="nestedatt--zos_creds"></a>
### Nested Schema for `zos_creds`

Required:

- `password` (String, Sensitive) z/OS system password
- `username` (String) z/OS system username

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# A z/OS provisioned instance can imported by specifying the provision UUID
terraform import ode_instance.example 11111111-aaaa-bbbb-cccc-222222222222
```
